HEAWM(1)                    General Commands Manual                   HEAWM(1)



NAME
       heawm - X11 window manager from the angels

SYNOPSIS
       heawm

DESCRIPTION
       heawm  is a keyboard‐centric, semidynamic tiling window manager for the
       X Window System with multihead and multihand support, aiming to provide
       efficient window navigation and management.

   Window management
       heawm uses box as the building block to express hierarchy and layout of
       windows. A box may contain further boxes or a client  window,  so  that
       they form a tree of boxes.

       Children  of  a container box are dynamically tiled inside an automatic
       grid. The dimensions of the grid (number of columns and rows) are auto‐
       matically chosen to provide a best-fit arrangement.

       The maximum number of tiles appearing inside a grid can be limited, ex‐
       cluding least recently used children. A box can be  optionally  cherry-
       picked and be explicitly hidden or shown in the layout.

       Floating boxes can be freely sized and always appear above tiled boxes.

       When  a floating box conceals more than one third of a just now focused
       tiled box it is placed to an alternative position if possible.

       Monitors are also floating boxes with a restriction that they cannot be
       explicitly moved or resized by the user for obvious reasons.

       Boxes  can be addressed by their name that is shown at their label. Box
       labels are circled with the color(s) of focusing hands.

   Session management
       Whenever a child of a monitor is focused, same-named children of  other
       monitors  gets focused, providing an convenient mechanism to switch be‐
       tween related windows across multiple monitors.

   Technical details
       heawm is reparenting.

       heawm provides no window decorators.

       heawm announces itself EWMH compliant, however only a minimal subset of
       these  standards are implemented—mainly because they are useless and/or
       inapplicable to the concepts.

OPTIONS
       -v     Show Git commit (version) and exit.

USAGE
       Escape Whenever you feel stucked.

   Keybindings
       Mod--  Decrease system volume.

       Mod-+  Increase system volume.

       Mod-{A-Za-z}...
              Focus box. Run hook autostart name if  there  is  no  such  box.


       Mod-Tab
              Focus box that previously received input.

       Mod-)  Open hook quickstart inside $TERMINAL.

       Mod-]  Open alsamixer(1).

       Mod-*  Toggle system mute.

       Mod-Return
              Open $TERMINAL.

       Mod-Space
              Toggle  visibility  of root box (everything). Available only for
              the first hand.

       Mod-Esc
              Escape from wherever you are.

       Mod-!  Refer to Mod-Ctrl-t

       Mod-.  Refer to Mod-Ctrl-f

       Mod-$  Refer to Mod-Ctrl-n

       Mod-;  Refer to Mod-Ctrl-k

       Mod-,  Refer to Mod-Ctrl-j

       Mod-{  Refer to Mod-Ctrl-x

       Mod-}  Refer to Mod-Ctrl-a

       Mod-#  Focus floating parent.

       Mod-Ctrl-group
              Group related boxes.

              Related boxes are determined by  WM_CLIENT_LEADER  and  WM_CLASS
              window properties in this order.

       Mod-Ctrl-barricade
              Toggle pointer barrier around focused box.

       Mod-Ctrl-take [ Mod-{A-Za-z}... ]... how
              Take box to somewhere else.  how can be:

              after, paste
                     Move box after focused one.

              before, Paste
                     Move box before focused one.

              into   Move  box into container. If box is not a container, make
                     a container out of it.

              h, j, k, l
                     Place box visually at the given direction.

              H, J, K, L
                     Make container from box before move.

              swap   Swap box with focused one.

              xtract Take out every children of box and place them  after  fo‐
                     cused box.

              Xtract Just like x but place before.

              float  Make box floating inside its parent.

              1..9   f and place according to usual numeric keypad layout.

              0      f and place according to Golden Ratio.

              *, /   Refer to Mod-WheelUp, Mod-WheelDown.


       Mod-Ctrl-lock
              Toggle focus lock inside box.

       Mod-Ctrl-show
              Explicitly unconceal box.

       Mod-Ctrl-hide
              Explicitly conceal box.

       Mod-Ctrl-a
              Decrease number of visible children.

       Mod-Ctrl-x
              Increase number of visible children.

       Mod-Ctrl-maximize
              Toggle between all and one visible children.

       Mod-Ctrl-full
              Do Mod-Ctrl-m for each level inside a floating box.

       Mod-Ctrl-|
              Toggle between vertical and horizontal fill modes.

       Mod-Ctrl-k
              Focus parent.

       Mod-Ctrl-j
              Focus child.

       Mod-Ctrl-name {A-Za-z}... Return
              Name focused box. When left empty, an automatic name will be as‐
              signed to the box.

              Some special keys are also recogzined, namely:

              +, -   Show/hide name label.

              *, /   On a container show/hide name labels recursively;  other‐
                     wise  show/hide any labels that obscures part of the win‐
                     dow.

              $      Reset names recursively.


       Mod-Ctrl-window
              Close window. Kill client if  repeated  within  a  half  second.


       Mod-Ctrl-zz
              Center pointer inside box.

       Mod-PrimaryButtonPress
              Focus  window and start moving a floating box. Force snap points
              with Shift.

       Mod-SecondaryButtonPress
              Resize floating box. Force snap points with Shift.

       Mod-WheelUp, Mod-WheelDown
              Resize floating box.

SIGNALS
       SIGINT, SIGTERM, SIGQUIT
              Terminate program gracefully.

EXIT STATUS
       (any)  Indicates that program does not run anymore.

HOOKS
       Hooks can be installed under $HEAWM_HOME directory.

       exit   Run before exiting.

       displaychange
              Run whenever display configuration changes,  e.g.  monitor  con‐
              nected/disconnected, resolution changed. See xrandr(1).

       inputchange
              Run  whenever  input  devices  change, e.g. keyboard plugged/un‐
              plugged, master device added. See xinput(1).

       autostart
              Run whenever user has would like to jump to a  non-existing  la‐
              bel. Can be useful to automagically start programs.

       startup
              Run on program (re)start.

ENVIRONMENT
       HEAWM_HOME
              Specifies directory where main configuration resides.

AUTHORS
       Written by zsugabubus.

SEE ALSO
       xinput(1) Xorg(1) xpenguins(1) xrandr(1) xrdb(1)



                                 November 2020                        HEAWM(1)
